\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename asynk.info
@settitle ASynK User Manual
@c %**end of header

@copying
This file documents ``ASynK - Awesome Sync (by Karra)''

Copyright (C) 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 Sriram Karra <karra.etc@@gmail.com>

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3;
with the Invariant Section being ``GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE,''
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Contacts synchronization
@direntry
* ASynk: (asynk).               Contacts synchronization.
@end direntry
#end dircategory

@titlepage
@title ASynK: Awesome Sync (by Karra)
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top ASynK User Manual

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                What is ASynK, and why should you be interested.
* Installation::                Fetching and installing ASynK
* Concepts::                    Things you must know to use ASynK
* Using ASynK::                 How to execute ASynK. Various commands and flags.
* Customization::               How to configure ASynK to your specific setup
* Recipes::                     Typical user flows
* Internals::                   Some notes on internal details for power users
* FAQ::                         Frequently Asked Questions

Appendices
* Copying::                     The GNU General Public License gives you permission
                         to redistribute GNU Emacs on certain terms;
                         it also explains that there is no warranty.
* GNU FDL::                     The license for this documentation.
* The Index::                   Complete index.

@end menu

@node Introduction, Installation, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

ASynK is a flexible Contacts synchronization program that works with a variety
of Contacts software such as Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Exchange Server,
Google Contacts, CardDAV and Emacs BBDB.

If you would not read through this documentation from cover to cover, but
rather learn by looking at examples, head straight to the section titled
``Recipes''. It contains enough examples to help you get going.

So, where were we? Ah, yes, introducing ASynK. Here are some of the high
level features of ASynK:

@include intro.texi

@node Installation, Concepts, Introduction, Top
@chapter Getting ASynK and Installation

The official website for ASynK is at:
@url{http://asynk.io}. You will find links to latest downloads,
complete and latest documentaiton, announcements and other information on that
website. 

The source code for ASynK is hosted on Github at:
@url{https://github.com/skarra/AsynK} (earlier hosted at:
@url{https://github.com/skarra/Gout}) Visit the site to grab the bleeding edge
development version, or to register an issue you have identified.

@section Pre-packaged Bundle
You can download the latest version by visiting the downloads section of the
official website at @url{http://asynk.io/downloads/}.

@section From Source
You can clone the git repository by using a command such as @kbd{git clone
git://github.com/skarra/ASynK.git}. Then run @kbd{asynk.py} as per
instructions given in the @ref{Using ASynK, Using ASynK}, section below.

@section Dependencies / Notes
@subsection General Dependencies

@enumerate
@item
@strong{Python 2.7}. You can download Python from:
@url{http://www.python.org/download/releases/}

@item
If you want to build the documentation yourself you will need some additional
tools:
@enumerate
@item
@strong{makeinfo}: Is needed to build documentation in Info, docbook and xml
formats. Version 4.8 is known to work with our sources.

@item
@strong{texi2html}: Is needed to build documentation in html format. Version 1
.70 is known to work with our sources.

@item
@strong{texi2pdf}: Is needed to build the documentation in PDF format. Version
1.34 is known to work with our sources.
@end enumerate
@end enumerate

@subsection Microsoft Exchange Specific Notes
If you want to synchronize to your Exchange Server you could do that from any
machine or operating system that can access your Exchange server over the
internet. You will need to ask  your system administrators for:

@enumerate
@item Your full email address 
@item Your account password
@item The exchange mailbox url
@end enumerate

@subsection Windows / Outlook Specific Notes
If you have contacts on your own machine inside a Outlook PST file you can
sycn them too. But there are a few additional dependencies:

@enumerate
@item
@strong{Microsoft Windows}: You must run ASynK on a Windows machine. Any
recent version such as XP onwards will do.

@item 
@strong{MS Outlook}: Outlook should be installed. Direct read/write of PST
files is not possible. Any recent version should work. ASynK has been reported
to work with Office 2007, Office 2008, Office 2010, Office 2013

@item
@strong{Pywin32 for Python 2.7}: It is available for download 
@url{http://sourceforge.net/projects/pywin32/files/pywin32}
@end enumerate
@cindex Windows

@subsection CardDAV Specific Notes
Keep in mind that unlike Google Contacts, CardDAV servers do not support a
roll back feature. This means any ASynK bugs could potentially lead to loss of
information for you. While there have been no complaints of ASynK eating up
people's data, please take your own precautions before you deploy this on your
live data. The use of the @kbd{--user-dir=} option is also high encouraged.

At the moment the following fields are synched in both ways. More may be
supported over time.  @strong{Important}: Fields not mentioned here will be
lost in transit!

@enumerate  
@item
First name

@item
Last name

@item
Middle name

@item
Formatted name

@item
Suffix, Prefix

@item
Gender

@item
Email addresses

@item
Phone numbers

@item
Title

@item
Department

@item
Company name

@item
Notes

@end enumerate

Specifically, the following are not synched:

@enumerate
@item
IM
@item
WWW
@item
Postal Addresses
@item
Custom fields
@end enumerate

@subsection BBDB Specific Notes
ASynK can parse and write BBDB files without the need for Emacs or
BBDB. However, ensure you are using BBDB at the time ASynK is reading/writing
the database. Bad things can happen if you are not careful with this. Furthermore,
note the following:

@enumerate
@item
@strong{BBDB V3}: ASynK works best if you use BBDBV3. V3 is the future of
BBDB and a significant rewrite of large portions of the code base, but is
decidedly not backward compatible with most user customization. You can
download it at @url{http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/bbdb}.

Importantly for ASynK, the file format used by V3 provides for granular time
stamps with timezone information and ASynK will just work ``out of the
box''. There are also other important changes to the structure of the BBDB
record in file format version 7.

@item
@strong{Timestamp Customization}: ASynK expects timestamps to be in UTC -
i.e. they should all end with the @kbd{+0000}. If you have customized your
BBDB timestamp format, it can lead to confusing results.

@item
@strong{BBDB-2.x}: Starting release v0.2.1 ASynK has added limited support for
BBDB file format version 6 which is the latest version used by the 2.x
releases of BBDB. This version of BBDB is not actively maintained, but is more
widely deployed because of its age and availability on XEmacs.

Support is limited in the sense that the native ver 6 file format timestamps
only store year, month and day. So BBDB will overwrite the granular ASynK
timestamps with a yyyy-mm-dd timestamp, and your bi-directional sync will not
quite work as you would like. 

The above limitation can be overcome by applying the following simple
patch. With this patch in place ASynK will work quite well. There is a
downside, however - certain time-based search in BBDB may behave differently
(search newer, search older etc. will behave differently owing to differences
in timestamp format). But one would like to think the ability to do
bidirectional sync outweighs this minor irritation.

@verbatim
commit eb6ba8d342a46d61c45b0ce4c1de7711ff011466
Author: Sriram Karra <karra.etc@gmail.com>
Date:   Wed May 16 18:09:50 2012 +0530

    Include UTC time as part of timestamp
    
    This is a feature in file format 7 available with BBDB v3. However
    that is not available with the 2.x series. A detailed timestamp
    is needed to do a sync with a third party.
    
    The ideal way would have been to fully implement the version 7
    changes on 2.36. However that involves a lot of changes and is
    risky - for e.g. introducing a new key name field (affix)
    will stretch my understanding of BBDB internals. Best to just
    provide a quick hack for those willing to live with it only to
    try ASynK or similar sync software.
    
    The obvious pitfall is that commands that work on the timestamp
    field (like newer or older filters and delete) will start
    to behave differently because a string comparison is done to
    check if a date is newer or older.
    
       *** You have been warned ***

diff --git a/lisp/bbdb-hooks.el b/lisp/bbdb-hooks.el
index 01de4f2..b9f0d9d 100644
--- a/lisp/bbdb-hooks.el
+++ b/lisp/bbdb-hooks.el
@@ -59,7 +59,7 @@
 (defvar mh-show-buffer)
 
 
-(defvar bbdb-time-internal-format "%Y-%m-%d"
+(defvar bbdb-time-internal-format "%Y-%m-%d %T %z"
   "The internal date format.")
 
 ;;;###autoload
@@ -69,7 +69,7 @@ for the given record which contains the time when it was last modified.  If
 there is such a field there already, it is changed, otherwise it is added."
   (bbdb-record-putprop record 'timestamp (format-time-string
                       bbdb-time-internal-format
-                      (current-time))))
+                      (current-time) t)))
 
 ;;;###autoload
 (defun bbdb-creation-date-hook (record)
@@ -78,7 +78,7 @@ which is the current time string."
   ;; hey buddy, we've known about your antics since the eighties...
   (bbdb-record-putprop record 'creation-date (format-time-string
                           bbdb-time-internal-format
-                          (current-time))))
+                          (current-time) t)))
 
 
 ;;; Determining whether to create a record based on the content of the
diff --git a/lisp/bbdb.el b/lisp/bbdb.el
index cc12045..dabbf05 100644
--- a/lisp/bbdb.el
+++ b/lisp/bbdb.el
@@ -1214,7 +1214,7 @@ from string."
 
 ;;; Address formatting.
 
-(defcustom bbdb-time-display-format "%d %b %Y"
+(defcustom bbdb-time-display-format "%d %b %Y %T %z"
   "The format for the timestamp to be used in the creation-date and
 timestamp fields.  See the documentation for `format-time-string'."
   :group 'bbdb :type 'string)
@@ -1223,11 +1223,13 @@ timestamp fields.  See the documentation for `format-time-string'."
   "Convert a date from the BBDB internal format to the format
 determined by FORMAT (or `bbdb-time-display-format' if FORMAT not
 present).  Returns a string containing the date in the new format."
-  (let ((parts (bbdb-split date "-")))
-    (format-time-string (or format bbdb-time-display-format)
-                        (encode-time 0 0 0 (string-to-number (caddr parts))
-                                     (string-to-number (cadr parts))
-                                     (string-to-number (car parts))))))
+  (format-time-string (or format bbdb-time-display-format)
+		      (condition-case err
+			  (date-to-time date)
+			(error nil
+			       (date-to-time (concat date " 00:00:00
+			       +0000"))))
+		      t))
 
 (defalias 'bbdb-format-record-timestamp 'bbdb-time-convert)
 (defalias 'bbdb-format-record-creation-date 'bbdb-time-convert)

@end verbatim
@end enumerate

@section Building & Installing Documentation

   The user documentation is in the directory called doc/ in the root of
   the ASynK source tree. The main source file is asynk.texi in TexInfo
   format. HTML, PDF and Info files are available on the project 
   home page at: http://asynk.io

   If you wish to build the documentation from source, you can try the 
   Makefile in the documentation directory, like so: 

@verbatim
   $ cd doc
   $ make pdf
   $ make       # Builds all the targets
   $ make clean
   $ make distclean
@end verbatim

   The supported doc types are: 'pdf', 'html', 'info', 'docbook', and 'text'. You may 
   have to install additional programs like makeinfo, texi2html etc. See the 
   "Dependencies" section above.

@cindex BBDB, Dependencies

@node Concepts, Using ASynK, Installation, Top
@chapter Concepts

This chapter explains some of the key terminology we will use through the rest
of this documentation. This is also required reading before you can dig into
the code, if you are so inclined.

@section Your Information and How it is Organized
@subsection @dfn{PIMDB}s
Google, MS Outlook and BBDB are know as ``PIM Databases'', and each is a ``PIM
DB'', or @dfn{pimdb}. PIM stands for Personal Information Manager. PIMDB is
PIM Database.

Each PIMDB is referred to using a unique two letter specifier -'bb' for BBDB,
'gc' for Google Contacts, 'cd' for CardDAV and 'ol' for Outlook. This two
letter specifier is called a @dfn{dbid}

@subsection @dfn{Item}s
Your personal information collection includes contacts, notes, appointments,
and tasks. In AsynK we refer to each piece of PIM information in your
databases as an @dfn{Item}. When we want to refer a specific type of Item we
would refer to them as Items - @dfn{Contact}, @dfn{Task}, @dfn{Note}, or
@dfn{Appointment} as applicable.

Every Item has an ID known as a @dfn{ItemID} that is guaranteed to be
unique within its containing @dfn{Folder}.

A pimdb can contain one or more Item types. Outlook supports all of
them. Google covers Contacts and Appointments well, and BBDB only does
contacts. In future we will be able to deal with all the contact types, but
for now, the only support is for Contacts.

@subsection @dfn{Message Store}
Instead of defining a message store in general terms, let me just give you
what they are for each of the @dfn{PIMDB}s we have.

In Google, a @dfn{Message Store} is identified by a user login/password. If
you have two Google accounts you have access to two @dfn{Message Store}s on
Google Contacts.

With CardDAV, as you can have any number server and a user login/password for
your account on that server. In this case a @dfn{Message Store} is the server
name - with a leading http or https, and a trailing port number, and
associated user credentials.

With MS Outlook, there is a built in concept of a @dfn{MessageStore}. Each
account you create becomes a @dfn{Message Store}. If you add a PST file to your
profile, it becomes a distinct @dfn{Message Store}. Essentially, The ASynK
@dfn{Message Store} corresponds directly with a Outlook Message Store.

A Note on Outlook Profiles: ASynK only works on the default Outlook Profile,
and the contained Stores, folders, and contacts. This is important to keep in
mind. You cannot specify a different Outlook profile to operate on.

@cindex Outlook Profile

And finally, in BBDB, a BBDB file is the @dfn{Message Store}. Simple :)

@subsection @dfn{Folders}
@dfn{Message Stores} are logically divided into @dfn{Folder}s. Google and
Outlook internally organize their items into Folders (Google actually calls
them Groups), but there is no native folder support in BBDB. 

Folders are assigned a unique ID determined by the PIMDB, and typically when
the folder is created. ASynK provides a way of viewing the available folders,
their names, and IDs in a given @dfn{PIMDB} / @dfn{Message Store}.

@subsubsection Folders in BBDB
The fact that there is no native folder support in BBDB is more than offset by
the fact that is infinitely customizable, and we can support a user-level
model of folders as we wish. This is how it works:

Normally, all the contacts in a BBDB @dfn{store} will be in a folder called
@dfn{default}. If, however, a contact has a notes field with key titled
@dfn{folder}, it will be put into the logical folder with the name specified
in the value part of that BBDB notes. For e.g. if @code{(``folder''
. ``Buddies'')} is a notes field in a contact, the ASynK will treat it as
being in the folder called @dfn{Buddies}.

If you do not like the @dfn{folder} key for your BBDB notes field, and want to
call it @dfn{group} instead, you can do that too. Refer to the Customizing
AsynK chapter below on how this can be done.

A BBDB folder's Name and ID are the same, and are taken from the value of the
notes field as explained above.

@cindex folders

@section ASynK Profile
ASynK allows you to keep any folder in a pimdb in sync with any folder in one
of the other pimdbs. The configuration and state of synchronization between a
pair of folders is captured in a sync @dfn{Profile}. Most ASynK operations
operate on a specified sync profile. So you will need to set up at least one
profile before you can play with ASynK.

Each Profile has the following information associated with it:

@enumerate
@item
@strong{Name}: A unique alphanumeric string that identifies the profile, and
is required for most sync operations. This is specified at the time of profile
creation, and has to be provided by the user. A profile's name cannot be
changed after creation.

@item
@strong{Folder IDs}: The IDs for the two folders that are to be synched. The
required IDs have to be specified by the user at the time of profile
creation. The IDs are assigned by the PIM DBs when the folders are
created. ASynK can be used to list the existing folders in a PIMDB and their
IDs, so the user can use the appropriate IDs at profile creation time.

@item
@strong{DB IDs}: Two DB IDs that hold the folders that are to be synched. This
is specified at the time of profile creation and has to be specified by the
user. They have to one of the supported DB IDs, which are 'bb', 'gc', 'cd' and
'ol', in this version. The order in which the DB IDs are specified matters -
as explained below.

@item
@strong{Sync Timestamps}: The start and end of the last successful sync
operation for this profile.  The end of the last sync is the timestamp used to
query the pimdbs for updates that have to be synched. These are initialized
and updated automatically by the system and you do not have to worry about
it.

@item
@strong{Conflict Resolution Direction}: Occasionally one ends up editing an
item in multiple places or devices, and this situation leads to a conflict -
i.e. the same item has been updated since the last sync on both ends. There is
no magic way to figure out which is the correct version. So we have to use a
pre-determined tie breaker. This parameter tells the system in which direction
to resolve this conflict. This field can be specified at the time of profile
creation, but defaults to the first dbid specified in the profile. Once
profile is created, the direction of conflict resolution cannot be specified
for a operation.
@cindex conflict resolution

@item
@strong{Sync Direction}: Although ASynK is designed to be a two way sync, you
might be interested in setting up certain profiles to sync in only one
direction - i.e. new entries and updates to existing entries will only flow in
one direction. This can be specified at the time of profile creation and also
be specified for every sync operation. If it is a one way sync, currently the
flow will be from db1 to db2 (i.e. the first db in the profile to the second
db). Note: This has to be fixed.
@cindex sync direction
@end enumerate

@cindex sync profile

@node Using ASynK, Customization, Concepts, Top
@chapter Using ASynK

Recent releases of ASynK (v0.2.0+) only support a command line user interface
- even on Windows. Once you have your platform-specific dependencies
installed, there is no difference at all in the way ASynK is invoked on any
platform.

There are plans to develop a browser-based GUI, but work on that has
not started yet.

@section Invoking Help
As of the latest version, only a command line interface is available. There
are plans to provide a browser based UI at a later stage.

To run ASynK, change to the root of the downloaded ASynK directory, and type
@command{python asynk.py -h} to get a detailed help screen as show below. In
the following sections we look at each of the flags and options in detail (in
time, of course).
@verbatim
Srirams-MacBook-Pro:asynk.co sriramkarra$ ./asynk.py --help
usage: asynk.py [-h] [--dry-run] [--sync-all]
                [--op {list-folders,create-folder,create-store,show-folder,del-folder,list-profiles,list-profile-names,find-profile,create-profile,show-profile,del-profile,sync,clear-sync-artifacts}]
                [--user-dir USER_DIR]
                [--db {bb,gc,ol,cd,ex} [{bb,gc,ol,cd,ex} ...]]
                [--store STORE [STORE ...]] [--folder FOLDER [FOLDER ...]]
                [--item ITEM] [--name NAME] [--direction {1way,2way}]
                [--label-regex LABEL_REGEX]
                [--conflict-resolve CONFLICT_RESOLVE]
                [--gcpwd GCPWD [GCPWD ...]] [--cduser CDUSER [CDUSER ...]]
                [--cdpwd CDPWD [CDPWD ...]]
                [--log {debug,info,error,critical}] [--version]

ASynK: PIM Awesome Sync by Karra

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --dry-run             Do not sync, but merely show what will happen if a
                        sync is performed.
  --sync-all            when used with --op=sync, this will ignore previous
                        synchronization state, and perform a complete resync.
  --op {list-folders,create-folder,create-store,show-folder,del-folder,list-profiles,list-profile-names,find-profile,create-profile,show-profile,del-profile,sync,clear-sync-artifacts}
                        Specific management operation to be performed.
  --user-dir USER_DIR   Directory to store ASynK config files, logs directory,
                        BBDB backups directory, etc.
  --db {bb,gc,ol,cd,ex} [{bb,gc,ol,cd,ex} ...]
                        DB IDs required for most actions. Some actions need
                        two DB IDs - do it with two --db flags. When doing so
                        remember that order might be important for certain
                        operations.
  --store STORE [STORE ...]
                        Specifies store ID(s) to be operated on.
  --folder FOLDER [FOLDER ...]
                        For operations that need folder ids, this option
                        specifies them. More than one can be specified
                        separated by spaces
  --item ITEM           For Item operations specify the ID of the Item to
                        operate on.
  --name NAME           For profile operations, specifies profile name. For
                        Folder operations, specifies folder name
  --direction {1way,2way}
                        Specifies whether a sync has to be unidirectional or
                        bidirectional. Defaults to bidirectional sync, i.e.
                        "2way"
  --label-regex LABEL_REGEX
                        A regular expression for sync artification to be
                        cleared from specified folder. This is to be used
                        independently of any sync profile.
  --conflict-resolve CONFLICT_RESOLVE
                        Specifies how to deal with conflicts in case of a
                        bidirectional sync and an item is modified in both
                        places. It should be set to 1 or 2 to specify the one
                        to be used; in case the dbs are unique. For e.g. if
                        you are synching from BBDB to Google Contacts, then
                        you can also specify the dbid itself (i.e. bb or gc)
  --log {debug,info,error,critical}
                        Specify level of console logging. Note that DEBUG
                        level logs are always written to a log file for
                        tracking purposes
  --version             show program's version number and exit

Google Authentication:
  --gcpwd GCPWD [GCPWD ...]
                        Google password. Relevant only if --db=gc is used. You
                        can specify two if you are operating with 2 gc dbs.
                        You could also specify one from netrc and one on the
                        command line. First one can optionally be "None"
                        (without the quotes). If this option is not specified,
                        user is prompted password from stdin as required.

CardDAV Server Authentication:
  --cduser CDUSER [CDUSER ...]
                        CardDAV username. Relevant only if --db=cd is used.
                        You can specify two if you are operating with 2 cd
                        dbs. You could also specify one from netrc and one on
                        the command line. First one can optionally be "None"
                        (without the quotes). If this option is not specified,
                        user is prompted for it from stdin if required.
  --cdpwd CDPWD [CDPWD ...]
                        CardDAV password. Relevant only if --db=cd is used.
                        You can specify two if you are operating with 2 cd
                        dbs. You could also specify one from netrc and one on
                        the command line. First one can optionally be "None"
                        (without the quotes). If this option is not specified,
                        user is prompted for it from stdin if required.
@end verbatim

TODO: Detailed documentation on what each of the above flags mean, etc.

@node Customization, Recipes, Using ASynK, Top
@chapter Customization

ASynK differentiates between application configuration and application
state. Configuration is user-facing key-value information, and something that
a user does not typically change in the middle of a run. Configuration tells
ASynK what to sync, where to put log files, etc.

Application state, on the other hand, is not meant to be modified directly by
the user. It is used internally by the program to manage various things about
the sync, etc.

In this section we only talk about application configuration. The application
state is explained in more detail in the @ref{Internals, Internals}, section.

@section @kbd{config.json} and @kbd{config.py}

The entire application configuration is stored as a JSON file in the
application_root/config/ directory. It has copious comments and explanation of
its various fields, so we will only list the main configurable parameters
here, and will just point you to the source to find out more. You should not
edit this JSON file directly as it might get updated in subsquent releases of
ASynK. 

All of your own customizations should be placed in the file
~/.asynk/config.py. You can look in the file for example customizations and
further instructions. The first time you run ASynK, a copy of a sample
config.py is made to ~/.asynk (which is the default per-user asynk config
directory), or to a directory specified with the @kbd{--user-dir} command line
option. For all subsequent runs, the default config.json is loaded, then the
user customizations are executed by loading the config.py file from the user
directory.

@enumerate
@item
Location of directory containing logs. This should be the name of a directory
relative to the ASynK user directory, which is ~/.asynk/ by default.
@cindex logging

@item
The prefix and separator to use for the ASynK sync tags/labels.

@item
Default values for newly created profile, like sync direction, etc.

@item
DB specific configuration. There are many instances where the capabilities of
one PIM DB does no match another's. If care is not take to bridge this gap,
synching back and forth could lead to loss of information. ASynK is designed
to ensure this does not happen, and we try very hard.

Bridging this gap sometimes means taking a call on how to handle a particular
situation. We have tried to make these essentially arbitrary calls
configurable so interested users can tweak this to their liking.

@enumerate
@item
Outlook

@enumerate
@item
@emph{The fields to be synched}: Outlook has a gazillion properties, many of them
seemingly redundant. We have identified a subset of the really relevant ones
here, and you can add or remove stuff you want or don't want.

@item
@emph{Email classification by domains}: Outlook does not really classify email
addresses into Work, Home, Other etc. like Google does. Here you can tell
ASynK how to do that based on the email addresses.
@end enumerate

@item
BBDB

@enumerate
@item
Location of directory containing backup of BBDB stores. This should the name
of a directory relative to the asynk user directory, which is ~/.asynk/ by
default. 
@cindex Backup BBDB

@item
@emph{Text Encodings}: The list of text encodings that you want ASynK to try
while attempting to read your BBDB

@item
@emph{Email classification by domains}: Same as explained for Outlook

@item
@emph{Postal address map}: Same as above, except that this is for postal
addresses.

@item
@emph{Phones map}: Ditto, for phones

@item
@emph{Notes map}: BBDB really is really flexible, to the point that very
basic fields are not standardized. There is no date of birth, middle name, web
url, gender, and similar fields. However one can always have such data as a
user-defined field. This map allows the mapping from a bbdb field name to one
of the standard fields.
@end enumerate

@item
Google Contacts

@enumerate
@item
@emph{Postal Map}: Google's address system is interesting - a user can either
have a standard category, or a user defined label. A generic user defined
label has the same problem as with others - it is hard to classify. So we need
a map for Google as well.
@end enumerate
@end enumerate

Note that your sync field customizations for all the databases should be
consistent, otherwise there would be information loss as you sync your
contacts around.
@end enumerate

@section Authentication using ~/.netrc
For Google and CardDAV you are required to provide a username and password to
perform most operations. These credentials can be specified in a number of
ways including command line flags, or through the STDIN on being prompted for
them. There is yet another way to set this up that will reduce your typing and
will consolidate all your asynk related authentication information in the same
place. That is by using the ~/.netrc file. 

Let's say you have a ASynK profile named @kbd{testbbcc} connects your BBDB
file to a Google Contacts account. You can specify the auth credentials for
this profile by inserting the following lines in youru ~/.netrc.

@verbatim
machine gc_testbbgc
  login <<< username >>>
  password <<< password >>>
@end verbatim

Here the @kbd{gc_} prefix to the profile name specifies clearly that this is a
Google account. Replace the @kbd{<<< >>>} with your actual values.

Similarly for a CardDAV account credentials the @kbd{gc_} prefix will become
@kbd{cd_}. Like so:

@verbatim
machine cd_testbbcd
  login <<< username >>>
  password <<< password >>>
@end verbatim

@subsection Using netrc for like-pair synching
If your profile is set up to sync betwen two like stores, for e.g. between
two Google Contacts accounts, you can specify the login credentials in your
netrc as follows:

@verbatim
machine gc1_testgcgc
  login <<< username >>>
  password <<< password >>>

machine gc2_testgcgc
  login <<< username >>>
  password <<< password >>>
@end verbatim

Note the name of the machine specifies if it belongs to the first or second
collection. Note that you could use the same credentials for both
collections. This case would be useful to copy / mirror contacts from one
folder to another.

@node Recipes, Internals, Customization, Top
@chapter Recipes

Note to Self: This section ideally should only give examples without really
explaining the options, constraints  etc. in depth - that should be done in
the previous section on ``Using ASynK'' where the complete documentation for
every flag in the system will be documented, and will the authoritative single
reference for such things. This will entail some reorg of the doc content and
much additional content as well...

The easiest way to get used to AsynK is to look at some examples. This chapter
contains some of the simplest use cases. You can refer to section @ref{Using
ASynK, Using ASynK}, for detailed documentation on each flag, legal and
illegal options, etc.

@section Basic Usage: using the default sync profiles
@kbd{$ ./asynk.py --op=sync [--dry-run] [--log=debug]}

ASynK comes with two default profiles to help you get a quick feel for the
sync features.

When you run the above mentioned command on a windows box a default profile
called @kbd{defolbb} kicks in and contacts in your  ~/.bbdb file are
bi-directionally synced to your default Outlook folder.

On any non-windows platform, your ~/.bbdb is merely ``synched'' to another
BBDB file in /tmp/asynk.bbdb. The default profile that kicks in is
@kbd{defbbbb}

Note: In earlier versions the default profiles helped you sync easily to your Google
account, but due to some changes that Google made to its authentication flow,
a simple no-frills sync is no longer possible. Setting up Google sync is
covered elsewhere in this documentation.

@section Explore Folders and Create Synk Profile
@enumerate
@item
Determine the PIMDBs you want to sync - i.e. select two from @kbd{bb},
@kbd{gc}, and @kbd{ol}

@item
Determine the Message Stores you want to sync - remember that for Google, a
message store is an account with login credentials, for Outlook it maps to an
Outlook MessageStore (IDs are obtained from a @kbd{--op=list-folders} command
shown below), and for BBDB it is a file - specified by a filename. The Stores
are specified with the @kbd{--store=<storeid, storeid>} option.

@item
List the folders you have in your Message Stores to identify the folders that
actually contain the Items you want to synchronize.
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ python asynk.py --op=list-folders --db gc --store karra.etc < login.auth
[18:08:08.216     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-09.18-08-08.216602
[18:08:08.572     INFO] Logging into Google...
[18:08:10.603     INFO] Listing all folders in PIMDB gc...
[18:08:11.797     INFO]   0: Contacts Name: System Group: My Contacts ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/6
[18:08:11.797     INFO]   1: Contacts Name: System Group: Friends     ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/d
[18:08:11.797     INFO]   2: Contacts Name: System Group: Family      ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/e
[18:08:11.797     INFO]   3: Contacts Name: System Group: Coworkers   ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/f
[18:08:11.797     INFO]   4: Contacts Name: TestBB                    ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5
[18:08:11.797     INFO]   5: Contacts Name: Gout                      ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/41baff770f898d85
[18:08:11.798     INFO]   6: Contacts Name: Starred in Android        ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/5254f4a808c5e7d8
[18:08:11.798     INFO] Listing all folders in PIMDB gc...done
@end verbatim

The output should be self explanatory. The group ID is the full URI in the
last column of output. A few things to note:

@enumerate
@item
For a google sync profile operation, if a --store option is skipped, the user
is prompted for a username and password from stdin. If a --store option is
given on the command line, it is used as the login name and only the password
is prompted for.

@item
In the above example, we have stored the password (in plain text) in a file
called ``login.auth'' and piping it to ASynK.
@end enumerate
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ ./asynk.py --op=list-folders --db bb --store test/bbdb.utah.ver7
[18:27:07.147     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-09.18-27-07.147160
[18:27:07.149     INFO] Parsing BBDB file /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/test/bbdb.utah.ver7...
[18:27:07.396     INFO] Successfully parsed 338 entries.
[18:27:07.396     INFO] Listing all folders in PIMDB bb...
[18:27:07.396     INFO]   1: Contacts.	Name: default;	GID: default;	
[18:27:07.396     INFO] Listing all folders in PIMDB bb...done
@end verbatim

Here we passed the relative path of a BBDB file to list-folders. Recall that
for BBBD the message store is the full BBDB file. In this instance the store
is a typical BBDB database file where no contacts have the @kbd{folder} notes
field, hence all of them are put in the ``default'' folder. Note how the name
and ID of the folder are the same.
@verbatim
TODO: Insert a sample Outlook list-folders
@end verbatim

@cindex Folder listing
@cindex BBDB, listing folders

@item
Optionally you would like to create a folder in one of the Message Stores to
hold your synchronized contacts. While you can create new folders in the
native UI of Google Contacts or Outlook and use them with ASynK, we just
provide a convenience option of creating one from the command line.
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ ./asynk.py --op create-folder --name 'Demo' --db gc --store karra.etc@gmail.com < login.auth
[22:30:00.827     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-12.22-30-00.827089
[22:30:00.829     INFO] Logging into Google...
[22:30:02.871     INFO] Successfully created group. ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/6c2034580ea2ac15

Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ ./asynk.py --op=list-folders --db gc --store karra.etc < login.auth
[22:30:08.870     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-12.22-30-08.870610
[22:30:08.872     INFO] Logging into Google...
[22:30:09.899     INFO] Listing all folders in PIMDB gc...
[22:30:10.331     INFO]   0: Contacts Name: System Group: My Contacts ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/6
[22:30:10.332     INFO]   1: Contacts Name: System Group: Friends     ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/d
[22:30:10.332     INFO]   2: Contacts Name: System Group: Family      ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/e
[22:30:10.332     INFO]   3: Contacts Name: System Group: Coworkers   ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/f
[22:30:10.332     INFO]   4: Contacts Name: TestBB                    ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5
[22:30:10.332     INFO]   5: Contacts Name: Gout                      ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/41baff770f898d85
[22:30:10.333     INFO]   6: Contacts Name: Starred in Android        ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/5254f4a808c5e7d8
[22:30:10.333     INFO]   7: Contacts Name: Demo                      ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/6c2034580ea2ac15
[22:30:10.333     INFO]   8: Contacts Name: For Testing OLGC          ID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/727ac1f9891121f7
@end verbatim

As we can see, the new folder has been created successfully.

@item
List your sync profiles. When you first start out, there is only a dummy sync
profile, whose only purpose for existence is so you can do a list-profiles
with your shiny new ASynK download :-) So let's do it.
@verbatim
Creating default state.json to hold application status
[22:35:00.058     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/ASynK/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-12.22-35-00.058672
[22:35:00.060     INFO] 
[22:35:00.060     INFO] *** Profile   : sample ***
[22:35:00.061     INFO]   Collection 1: 
[22:35:00.061     INFO]     DB ID     : gc
[22:35:00.061     INFO]     Store ID  : karra.etc@gmail.com
[22:35:00.061     INFO]     Folder ID : http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5
[22:35:00.062     INFO]   Collection 2: 
[22:35:00.062     INFO]     DB ID     : bb
[22:35:00.062     INFO]     Store ID  : test/bbdb.utah.ver7
[22:35:00.062     INFO]     Folder ID : default
[22:35:00.062     INFO]   sync_start  : 1980-01-01T00:00:00.00+00:00
[22:35:00.062     INFO]   sync_stop   : 1980-01-01T00:00:00.00+00:00
[22:35:00.063     INFO]   sync_dir    : SYNC2WAY
[22:35:00.063     INFO]   confl_res   : gc
[22:35:00.063     INFO]   olgid       : 0x9001
@end verbatim

The output should be fairly self explanatory. The sample profile is between a
GC folder and the default folder in a specific BBDB store. It also specifies
that the sync should be two way, and You do not have to
understand what ``olgid'' means. This is

@item
You would create up a sync profile that specifies the various details ASynK needs
to know to perform a sync. (See section ASynK Profile). From here on
your regular sync is done through a reference to the profile name, and you do
not have to type out all the confusing IDs etc. every time.
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ python asynk.py --op=create-profile --db gc bb  \
--folder 'http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5' \
'default' --store karra.etc 'test/bbdb.olbb' --name etcbb3
[00:33:39.347     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-13.00-33-39.347515
[00:33:39.373     INFO] Successfully added profile: etcbb3
@end verbatim

The @kbd{--op=create-profile} operation takes two dbids, two store ids and two
folder ids. The command line is quite a handful, but you should not have to
repeat this operation too often. It is worth noting the following about the
options passed:

@itemize
@item
The order of values for the @kbd{--db}, @kbd{--store} and @kbd{--folder}
options is important and should be consistent - i.e. the first value from each
of these three will be used as one collection, and second values are used as 

@item
If "gc" is one of the dbids, and store id is missing, it will be picked up
from stdin. 

@item
If BBDB is one of the dbids and folder id is missing it is assumed
to be the default folder. 

@item
If ol is one of the dbids and the store id is missing, we use the default
message store in the default profile
@end itemize
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ python asynk.py --op=list-profiles
[00:34:44.785     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-13.00-34-44.785442
[00:34:44.787     INFO] 
[00:34:44.790     INFO] *** Profile   : etcbb3 ***
[00:34:44.790     INFO]   Collection 1: 
[00:34:44.790     INFO]     DB ID     : gc
[00:34:44.790     INFO]     Store ID  : karra.etc
[00:34:44.790     INFO]     Folder ID : http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5
[00:34:44.791     INFO]   Collection 2: 
[00:34:44.791     INFO]     DB ID     : bb
[00:34:44.791     INFO]     Store ID  : test/bbdb.olbb
[00:34:44.791     INFO]     Folder ID : default
[00:34:44.791     INFO]   sync_start  : 1980-01-01T00:00:00.00+00:00
[00:34:44.791     INFO]   sync_stop   : 1980-01-01T00:00:00.00+00:00
[00:34:44.791     INFO]   sync_dir    : SYNC2WAY
[00:34:44.791     INFO]   confl_res   : gc
[00:34:44.791     INFO]   olgid       : 0x0
[00:34:44.792     INFO] 
[00:34:44.792     INFO] *** Profile   : sample ***
[00:34:44.792     INFO]   Collection 1: 
[00:34:44.792     INFO]     DB ID     : gc
[00:34:44.792     INFO]     Store ID  : karra.etc@gmail.com
[00:34:44.792     INFO]     Folder ID : http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/3b83f70e88fa08bd
[00:34:44.792     INFO]   Collection 2: 
[00:34:44.792     INFO]     DB ID     : ol
[00:34:44.792     INFO]     Store ID  : None
[00:34:44.792     INFO]     Folder ID : AAAAADWE5+lnNclLmn8GpZUD04eCRRoA
[00:34:44.792     INFO]   sync_start  : 1980-01-01T00:00:00.00+00:00
[00:34:44.793     INFO]   sync_stop   : 1980-01-01T00:00:00.00+00:00
[00:34:44.793     INFO]   sync_dir    : SYNC2WAY
[00:34:44.793     INFO]   confl_res   : gc
[00:34:44.793     INFO]   olgid       : 0x9001
@end verbatim

And as we can confirm the new profile is now set up and available for
use. Please note that there is not much error checking at the time of profile
creation. For e.g. it is the user's responsibility to ensure there is a
specified folder and store in a given pimdb, etc. If there are any errors,
they will show up in subsequent sync operations.

@end enumerate

@section Sync Actions and Related Cleanup
@enumerate
@item
Perform a ``dry run'' to get a sense of how many contacts are going to get
copied from where to where.
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ python asynk.py --op=sync --dry-run --name etcbb2 < login.auth
[00:53:10.643     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-13.00-53-10.643187
[00:53:10.648     INFO] Logging into Google...
[00:53:12.143     INFO] Parsing BBDB file /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/test/bbdb.utah.ver7...
Password: [00:53:12.291     INFO] Successfully parsed 338 entries.
[00:53:12.291     INFO] BBDB database not backed up for dry run
[00:53:12.292     INFO] Last synk for profile etcbb2 was at: 2012-05-11T11:01:56.57Z
[00:53:12.292     INFO] Querying Google for status of Contact Entries...
[00:53:13.157     INFO] Response received from Google. Processing...
[00:53:13.157     INFO] No entries in feed.
[00:53:13.159     INFO] ==== gc =====
[00:53:13.160     INFO]    New              :     0
[00:53:13.160     INFO]    Modified         :     0
[00:53:13.160     INFO]    Unchanged        :     0
[00:53:13.160     INFO]                       =====
[00:53:13.160     INFO]    Total Entries    :     0
[00:53:13.160     INFO]    Deleted          :     0
[00:53:13.160     INFO] ==== bb =====
[00:53:13.161     INFO]    New              :     0
[00:53:13.161     INFO]    Modified         :     0
[00:53:13.161     INFO]    Unchanged        :   338
[00:53:13.161     INFO]                       =====
[00:53:13.161     INFO]    Total Entries    :   338
[00:53:13.161     INFO]    Deleted          :     0
[00:53:13.161     INFO] Number of entries modified both places (conflicts): 0
[00:53:13.162     INFO] conflict resolve direction : bb. db1id: gc, db2id: bb
[00:53:13.162     INFO] After conflict resolution, size of gc mod :     0
[00:53:13.162     INFO] After conflict resolution, size of bb mod :     0
@end verbatim

It's not technically a complete dry run. For now we just get a summary of
stats of what will happen during a proper sync. In the above run we see that
there are no new entries or modifications at either end. Essentially if you
perform a sync now, no entries need to be copied from anywhere to anywhere.

Let's see one more example, this time with a sync profile containing an
Outlook folder.
@verbatim
Z:\Gout>python asynk.py --op=sync --name realolbb --dry-run
[11:26:33.790     INFO] Debug logging to file: Z:\Gout\logs\asynk_logs.2012-05-13.11-26-33.791000
[11:26:33.868     INFO] Parsing BBDB file Z:\Gout\test/bbdb.olbb...
[11:26:33.930     INFO] Successfully parsed 0 entries.
[11:26:33.930     INFO] Initalizing MAPI...
[11:26:34.368     INFO] Initalizing MAPI...done
[11:26:34.368     INFO] Opening default profile in MAPI...
[11:26:34.476     INFO] Opening default profile in MAPI...done
[11:26:34.789     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Personal Folders...
[11:26:34.805     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:26:34.944     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Personal Folders...done
[11:26:35.256     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Master Task List...
[11:26:35.273     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:26:35.273     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:26:35.647     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Master Task List...done
[11:26:37.674     INFO] BBDB database not backed up for dry run
[11:26:37.690     INFO] Last synk for profile realolbb was at: 2012-05-12T02:38:08.34Z
[11:26:37.690     INFO] Querying MAPI for status of Contact Entries
[11:26:37.706     INFO] Data obtained from MAPI. Processing...
[11:26:37.706     INFO] ==== bb =====
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    New              :     0
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    Modified         :     0
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    Unchanged        :     0
[11:26:37.706     INFO]                       =====
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    Total Entries    :     0
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    Deleted          :     0
[11:26:37.706     INFO] ==== ol =====
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    New              :     2
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    Modified         :     0
[11:26:37.706     INFO]    Unchanged        :     0
[11:26:37.721     INFO]                       =====
[11:26:37.721     INFO]    Total Entries    :     2
[11:26:37.721     INFO]    Deleted          :     0
[11:26:37.721     INFO] Number of entries modified both places (conflicts): 0
[11:26:37.721     INFO] conflict resolve direction : bb. db1id: bb, db2id: ol
[11:26:37.721     INFO] After conflict resolution, size of bb mod :     0
[11:26:37.721     INFO] After conflict resolution, size of ol mod :     0
@end verbatim

@cindex Dry run

@item
Perform the actual sync. Note that we do not provide a @kbd{--name} argument
to specify the profile name. ASynK will remember the last profile that was
operated on and use it in case a @kbd{--name} is not explicitly specified.
@verbatim
Z:\Gout>python asynk.py --op=sync
[11:26:56.769     INFO] Debug logging to file: Z:\Gout\logs\asynk_logs.2012-05-13.11-26-56.769000
[11:26:56.769     INFO] Parsing BBDB file Z:\Gout\test/bbdb.olbb...
[11:26:56.769     INFO] Successfully parsed 0 entries.
[11:26:56.769     INFO] Initalizing MAPI...
[11:26:57.144     INFO] Initalizing MAPI...done
[11:26:57.144     INFO] Opening default profile in MAPI...
[11:26:57.253     INFO] Opening default profile in MAPI...done
[11:26:57.549     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Personal Folders...
[11:26:57.579     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:26:57.782     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Personal Folders...done
[11:26:58.016     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Master Task List...
[11:26:58.048     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:26:58.063     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:26:58.312     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Master Task List...done
[11:27:00.591     INFO] Backedup BBDB Store (Z:\Gout\test/bbdb.olbb) to file: Z:\Gout\./backups\bbdb_backup.realolbb.2012-05-13.
-27-00.591000
[11:27:00.684     INFO] Last synk for profile realolbb was at: 2012-05-12T02:38:08.34Z
[11:27:00.684     INFO] Querying MAPI for status of Contact Entries
[11:27:00.684     INFO] Data obtained from MAPI. Processing...
[11:27:00.684     INFO] ==== bb =====
[11:27:00.684     INFO]    New              :     0
[11:27:00.684     INFO]    Modified         :     0
[11:27:00.684     INFO]    Unchanged        :     0
[11:27:00.684     INFO]                       =====
[11:27:00.716     INFO]    Total Entries    :     0
[11:27:00.716     INFO]    Deleted          :     0
[11:27:00.716     INFO] ==== ol =====
[11:27:00.716     INFO]    New              :     2
[11:27:00.716     INFO]    Modified         :     0
[11:27:00.730     INFO]    Unchanged        :     0
[11:27:00.730     INFO]                       =====
[11:27:00.730     INFO]    Total Entries    :     2
[11:27:00.730     INFO]    Deleted          :     0
[11:27:00.730     INFO] Number of entries modified both places (conflicts): 0
[11:27:00.730     INFO] conflict resolve direction : bb. db1id: bb, db2id: ol
[11:27:00.730     INFO] After conflict resolution, size of bb mod :     0
[11:27:00.730     INFO] After conflict resolution, size of ol mod :     0
[11:27:00.730     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.730     INFO]    Sending New bb entries to ol
[11:27:00.730     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.730     INFO] No new entries that need to be synched
[11:27:00.730     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.730     INFO]    Sending Modified bb entries to ol
[11:27:00.746     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.746     INFO] No modified entries that need to be synched
[11:27:00.746     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.746     INFO]    Sending New ol entries to bb
[11:27:00.746     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.746     INFO] 2 new entries to be synched.
[11:27:00.809     INFO] Saving BBDB File Z:\Gout\test/bbdb.olbb...
[11:27:00.809     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.996     INFO]    Sending Modified ol entries to bb
[11:27:00.996     INFO] =====================================================
[11:27:00.996     INFO] No modified entries that need to be synched
@end verbatim

We see that the output from a dry-run operation is repeated, and then the
actual two way sync happens. Note the following:

@enumerate
@item
The BBDB file is backed up before any modifications are made. The location is
echoed to the console as an INFO message. It is also captured in a log file as
noted.

@item
If there are *any* errors during a sync operation, the timestamps are not
updated, however some of the database entries may well have been made
persistent, and it is not possible to roll back. In database terms, ASynK does
not do transactional writes and roll backs. This could create problems if
there are too many failures. It's a lot of work to change this behaviour. So
let's study the problem in the field and take a call on how to tackle it.
@end enumerate

@end enumerate

@section Synching to CardDAV
Setting up a profile to sync with a CardDAV profile may be a bit confusing at
best, and downright intimidating at worst. Part of the problem is the Store ID
itself is a URL, and it is not a standard - varying from one software to another.

A reminder - CardDAV support is the newest feature in ASynK, and there may be some
rough edges. Also most CardDAV servers do not allow a roll back - like Gmail does - 
to recover any lost data. So convince yourself that ASynK will work for you before
you start using it.

@subsection Creating a profile with CardDAV
@verbatim
   $ ./asynk.py --op=create-profile --name testbbcd --user-dir=~/.asynk.cd --db bb cd --folder default default --store <opath-to-bbdb-file> <CardDAV URL> --cduser=<username>
@end verbatim

Ensure you are able to login to your account properly.
@verbatim
   $ ./asynk.py --op=sync --user-dir=~/.asynk.cd --name testbbcd --dry-run
   $ ./asynk.py --op=sync --user-dir=~/.asynk.cd --name testbbcd
@end verbatim

@subsubsection CardDAV URL to use for the --store parameter
The thing that confuses most people is the CardDAV url which is not in
any standard format. Here are some of the known CardDAV servers, and
the URL that usually works with them. Replace server.org with the name of
your CardDAV server. If your server is not to be found here, a good
way to search the internet for the URL to use is to use a software
like Addressbook in OS X; the same URL will work with ASynK as well.

@enumerate
@item
Apple CalendarServer: https://server.org:8443/ or http://server.org/

@item
OwnCloud: https://server.org/owncloud/remote.php/carddav

@item
Baikal Server: http://server.org/card.php
@end enumerate

Note that for the port number may be optional. If Apple CalendarServer is configured
to respond to both http and https the a port number will be required. Check your 
server documentation.

@subsubsection CardDAV URL to use for the --folder parameter
You can just use ``default'' as the folder ID. But if you feel like using
a specific folder, note that the foid parameter in your state.json should look
like the following for each of the tested CardDAV servers:

@enumerate
@item
Apple CalendarServer: /addressbooks/__uids__/skarrag/addressbook/

@item
OwnCloud: /owncloud/remote.php/carddav/addressbooks/skarra/contacts/

@item
Baikal Server: /card.php/addressbooks/skarra/default/
@end enumerate

@section Synching to Microsoft Exchange
A reminder - Exchange support is the newest feature in ASynK, and there may be some
rough edges. We have taken care to ensure that any deletes from the server
move the contacts to the Trash Bin from where you can recover items if
something goes wrong. However convince yourself that ASynK works fine before
using it with your prodcution data.

@subsection Creating a profile with Exchange
@verbatim
   $ ./asynk.py --op=create-profile --name testbbex --db bb ex --folder default Contacts --store <opath-to-bbdb-file> <Exchange URL>
@end verbatim

The Exchange URL is of the form:
https://outlook.office365.com/EWS/Exchange.asmx - you should ask your system administrator.

Ensure you are able to login to your account properly.
@verbatim
   $ ./asynk.py --op=sync --user-dir=~/.asynk.cd --name testbbcd --dry-run
@end verbatim

If everything works fine, you can try out without the dry-run option.

@section Misc Housekeeping Activities
@enumerate
@item
@emph{Clear Sync Flags from Contact Entries}. Recall that ASynK stores some
tracking information (such as the contact's IDs in other remote folders) as
custom user fields. These custom fields are readily viewable and editable in Google
Contacts and BBDB, and as you can manually edit or delete them on a per
contact basis, if you so desire (although it is most definitely @emph{not
recommended)}. MS Outlook, on the other hand, does not provide any reasonable
way to view or manipulate these fields.

ASynK provides an automated way to clear out sync related tags from a
specified folder. It is best explained through a few examples. But before you
should know that ASynK tracks IDs using properties with labels like:
``asynk:profile:ol''. There are three parts separated by a colon. The first
part is always @kbd{asynk}. The middle portion is the name of the profile. The
last portion is the PIMDB ID in whose ID we are tracking.

The @kbd{--op=clear-sync-artifacts} operation takes a dbid (mandatory), a
storeid and a folderid. If the storeid or folderid are missing ASynK tries to
use defaults or query the user as per conventions explained earlier (TODO:
insert ref). The final argument is the most interesting: it is a regular
expression to match against the custom properties of contacts in the specified
folder.
@verbatim
Z:\Gout>python asynk.py --op=clear-sync-artifacts --db bb --store test/bbdb.olbb --label-re="asynk:realobb"
[10:59:05.456     INFO] Debug logging to file: Z:\Gout\logs\asynk_logs.2012-05-13.10-59-05.456000
[10:59:05.456     INFO] Parsing BBDB file Z:\Gout\test/bbdb.olbb...
[10:59:05.456     INFO] Successfully parsed 20 entries.
[10:59:05.470     INFO] Found 0 contacts with matching sync tag(s).
[10:59:05.470     INFO] Saving BBDB File Z:\Gout\test/bbdb.olbb...
@end verbatim

In the above example, we try to delete any sync labels for the realolbb
profile. The output shows that there were 20 entries in all, but nothing was
really cleared out as there were no matches.
@verbatim
Z:\Gout>python asynk.py --op=clear-sync-artifacts --db ol --folder "AAAAADWE5+lnNclLmn8GpZUD04ciRhoA" --label-re="asynk:"
[11:08:42.651     INFO] Debug logging to file: Z:\Gout\logs\asynk_logs.2012-05-13.11-08-42.652000
[11:08:42.667     INFO] Initalizing MAPI...
[11:08:43.134     INFO] Initalizing MAPI...done
[11:08:43.134     INFO] Opening default profile in MAPI...
[11:08:43.275     INFO] Opening default profile in MAPI...done
[11:08:43.602     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Personal Folders...
[11:08:43.618     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:08:43.836     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Personal Folders...done
[11:08:44.101     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Master Task List...
[11:08:44.101     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:08:44.118     INFO] Appointments not supported. Ignoring.
[11:08:44.710     INFO] Looking for PIM folders in message store: Master Task List...done
[11:08:46.957     INFO] Querying MAPI for all data needed to clear flag
[11:08:46.957     INFO] Data obtained from MAPI. Clearing one at a time
[11:08:47.174     INFO] Entries cleared: 2. Errors: 0; i: 2
@end verbatim

In the above example we try to clear out all the sync tags in the specified
outlook folder. The final line of output shows us that 2 entries had ASynK
sync tags, and they have been cleared out.

@item 
@emph{Delete a profile}
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ python asynk.py --op=del-profile  \
--name etcbb3 < login.auth
[11:45:09.153     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-13.11-45-09.153824
[11:45:09.191     INFO] Logging into Google...
[11:45:10.994     INFO] Parsing BBDB file /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/test/bbdb.olbb...
Password: [11:45:11.073     INFO] Successfully parsed 2 entries.
[11:45:11.073     INFO] Fetching contact entries from Google for folder TestBB...
[11:45:14.310     INFO] Clearing sync state information...
[11:45:14.313     INFO] Found 0 contacts with matching sync tag(s). 
[11:45:14.321     INFO] Found 0 contacts with matching sync tag(s). 
[11:45:14.322     INFO] Saving BBDB File /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/test/bbdb.olbb...
[11:45:14.655     INFO] Successfully deleted the profile etcbb3 from your Asynk configuration.
@end verbatim

This does two things: remove the sync artifacts from both folders in the
profile, and if there are no errors, remove the profile itself from the
profile list.

@item
Show a summary of Items in a given folder. Currently implemented for Google
Contacts, this the @kbd{--op=show-folder} operation can give you a one line
summary of all contacts in google folder.
@verbatim
Cardassia:Gout sriramkarra$ python asynk.py --op=show-folder --db gc \
--store karra.etc --folder \
"http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5" \
 < login.auth
[11:43:01.339     INFO] Debug logging to file: /Users/sriramkarra/stuff/code/python/Gout/logs/asynk_logs.2012-05-13.11-43-01.339125
[11:43:01.389     INFO] Logging into Google...
[11:43:03.330     INFO] Contacts.	Name: TestBB;	GID: http://www.google.com/m8/feeds/groups/karra.etc%40gmail.com/base/2fae451c0fe771d5;	
[11:43:03.330     INFO] Summary of contained Items:
[11:43:06.318     INFO]   Name: Nicholas F. Cianfrocco    Itemid: https://www.google.com/m8/feeds/contacts/karra.etc%40gmail.com/full/86079960ff67a85
[11:43:06.318     INFO]   Name: K. V. Krishna Kumar       Itemid: https://www.google.com/m8/feeds/contacts/karra.etc%40gmail.com/full/2ed62fa40b90b0bd
[11:43:06.318     INFO]   Name: ASR Murthy                Itemid: https://www.google.com/m8/feeds/contacts/karra.etc%40gmail.com/full/6c856cd68dae99df
[11:43:06.318     INFO]   Name: Ed Herring                Itemid: https://www.google.com/m8/feeds/contacts/karra.etc%40gmail.com/full/1041bce089860054
[11:43:06.318     INFO]   Name: Parveen Kumar Patel       Itemid: https://www.google.com/m8/feeds/contacts/karra.etc%40gmail.com/full/360448d50a2c6bda
[11:43:06.319     INFO]   Name: Ashwin M. Krishnakumar    Itemid: https://www.google.com/m8/feeds/contacts/karra.etc%40gmail.com/full/10bec2800bd7c9e7
@end verbatim

Here we get the name and Google ID of the contact for all contacts in the
specified folder.

@end enumerate

@node Internals, FAQ, Recipes, Top
@chapter Internals

@section Application and Sync State database: @kbd{state.json}

The profile database, and sync state is stored in a file called
@kbd{state.json}, which is stored in ~/.asynk/ root directory of the
application. This file does not exist in the distribution, but is created the
very first time you run ASynK, from a file called @kbd{state.init.json} in the
root of the ASynK source directory.

@emph{Note for older ASynK users}: Before v0.3.0 ASynK could only be executed
from the root directory of ASynK source, and the configuration files
(state.json and config.json) were read and written there itself. Starting with
v0.3.0 ASynK can be invoked from any directory, and it will start using
~/.asynk/ to read and write the configuration files.

If you have been using ASynK before v0.3.0 and have a state.json with your
sync profiles and other configurations in the ASynK source directory, you can
migrate easily by just running ASynK from its root directory once - ASynK will
identify that you have some state and config changes, and will copy your
versions to ~/.asynk/ so they are now available for subsequent runs from
anywhere. Note, however, tha once copied to ~/.asynk/ only the versions
present there will be read and written. Any changes you make to files
elsewhere will not be noticed.

@section Software Architecture

More to come here

@node FAQ, Copying, Internals, Top
@chapter FAQ

Here are some Frequently Ask-able Questions, along with answers.

@section Can I use this to copy my contacts from one Google account to
another?
Yes, that is possible.

@section Is there a way to not use my google/CardDAV password in clear text?
For now it is not possible. But please note that you are running ASynK on your
own machine. The authors of ASynk, or any one other than you, will see any of
your activity. That should provide some comfort.

That said we are exploring ways to implement oAuth so you do not have to use
your passwords in clear text.

@section My Google password is not working, but I know it is right!
Circa late 2014 Google starting blocking access to applications accessing
account data using plain text authentication as a conservative security
policy. You can find more information about this on Google's page here:
https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6010255 and see if this is what's
tripping you up.

@section Other Comparable Tools
@subsection What's wrong with Google's tools?
Google's tools are not as versatile as ASynK. I started work on ASynK because
I was unhappy with the state of sync solutions for Android and MS Outlook
(more on this later). Subsequently I added BBDB support and the made the
application flexible enough that I can sync my contacts between BBDB and MS
Outlook directly. Google has no tools to do that, of course. Further, the
platform is flexible enough to add support for any number of additional PIM
data providers.

Fundamentally, Google does not have a coherent and integrated strategy for
Personal Information Management (PIM). Contacts, Calendar, Notes and Tasks are
unrelated products with big differences in their APIs. The Tasks program
itself is of very limited functionality. This applies equally to Android as
well as for the cloud products. So it is hardly surprising that they do not
have a tightly integrated PIM sync solution for Android like Blackberry and
Nokia's sync software with MS Outlook, say.

Google does provide a few options for people who want to get data into their
Google account from Outlook.

@enumerate
@item 
A two-way Contacts sync tool for customers of their 'Google Apps for Business
users'. That is to say, it is not available for regular non-paying customers
like you and me. I haven't tried this even once.

@item
A one-way migration Contacts migration tool from MS Outlook, which only works
if you are saying goodbye to Outlook and moving home to Android. This is not
practical for people who use Outlook at work, but who want to use their
contacts on Android on their phone.

Even if you're willing to keep all your edits in Outlook, there are various
other problems: 

@itemize 
@item
It is so slow it is impractical for frequent use - migrating 1000 contacts
took more than 10 minutes. ASynK takes roughly a tenth of that time.

@item
It is very inflexible: all contacts get dumped in your 'My Contacts' mother
group. If you would like to neatly isolate your Outlook contacts neatly into a
separate group, no go.

@item
Older versions of this tool had issues with extracting email addresses from
Outlook entries - EX email addresses for those who care. Incidentally, this EX
email address problem plagues a number of sync solutions, including an
otherwise excellent product from TouchDown for Outlook PST.
@end itemize

@item
A two-way Calendar sync tool that works quite well, and available for all
users, include retail consumers. 

@item
And finally, their import from CSV. Let's just say, if you're happy with this
option you wouldn't be reading this right now.
@end enumerate

@subsection What is wrong with tools from HTC and other vendors?

These tools generally sync with MS Outlook, but are not available easily for
generic Android users. For e.g. owners of the pure Google phones such as Nexus
S. Further these are closed source, and adding BBDB support is, well, not
possible.

@cindex Other Sync Programs

@subsection What is wrong with GoContactSync?

GoContactSync (@url{http://sourceforge.net/projects/gocontactsync} is a GPL-ed
two way sync solution between MS Outlook and Google Contacts. It has
favourable reviews on the general internet. The drawback is it is written in
.NET, a language I do not know and have no desire to learn at this
time. Python was versatile enough to work on Windows and Unix, and allowed me
to extend to a third PIM data provider (BBDB). As noted earlier, ASynK is the
only two way sync solution for BBDB today.

@section What's Changed between v0.1 and v0.2?
It's almost a total rewrite. Here are main changes:

@enumerate
@item
v0.2.0 adds support for Emacs BBDB. At this time ASynK is the only available
working program that does bidirectional sync of BBDB to any other PIM
database.

@item
v0.1 was designed only for MS Outlook and Google Contacts. As a result it was
designed to run on Windows only, and there is a mandatory dependency on
PyWin32.

v0.2 works on Linux, Mac and Windows. Only if MS Outlook support is needed, a
third party library called PyWin32 is needed.

@item
v0.1 was distributed as a packaged Windows binary and the only user interface
was a GUI built with WxPython (required the user to install an additional
third party library)

v0.2 UI is purely command line, even on Windows.

@item 
v0.2 introduces the concept of sync profiles and folder-folder sync, which is
much more advanced than what we had earlier. v0.1 always did a sync between the
default contacts folder in the default message store with a newly created
folder called Gout on google.

@end enumerate

@cindex Other Sync Programs

@node Copying, GNU FDL, FAQ, Top
@appendix GNU AGPL
@include agpl-3.0.texi

@node GNU FDL, The Index, Copying, Top
@appendix GNU FDL
@include doclicense.texi

@node The Index,  , GNU FDL, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
